# MIDS210-FURever-Home-Forecast  
Animal shelters provide the important community service of temporarily housing lost, stray, injured, and abandoned animals. Their task is monumental – there are only ~3,500 animal shelters in the United States that handle the 6.5 million cats and dogs that enter shelters every year. This large number of animals for which to care can often lead to overcrowding in animal shelters, which regrettably results in approximately one million animals being euthanized at shelters every year. One alternative to euthanasia is animal fostering, which leads to better outcomes for the animal and reduced strain on the shelters. However, fostering can be difficult to arrange at the last minute.
This capstone project aims to save animal lives by empowering animal shelters to forecast potential overcrowding situations, increasing the time available to solicit volunteer foster support before euthanasia is required. This will be accomplished by training a machine learning algorithm to predict the time it will take animals to be adopted based on a variety of factors such as animal type, sex, breed, size, color, etc. This predictive capability will be employed in a webpage that predicts future capacity issues given the animals currently in the shelter’s care and historical trends for that shelter’s occupancy.
A 2019 Kaggle competition focused on predicting adoption timelines for the sake of learning about the adoptability of animals and how animal shelters can improve adoption profiles. Although this capstone project will use similar algorithms to those employed in this contest, it is novel in that it will use a new dataset, it will incorporate historical occupancy data, and it will result in a webpage with the entirely new objective of occupancy forecasting for animal shelters, leading to increased warning when volunteer engagement is required to prevent animal euthanasia.
